For the idol of the character I think I'm going to make it about six seconds long and if we look on
our output panel over here we can see that our frame rate is currently 24 frames per second and that's
fine.
I'm going to leave it at that.
So for six seconds of animation at 24 frames per second that would be 144.
Right.
So let's come over here and type in 144 down here.
Now we have a timeline of 144 frames.
Let's go ahead and begin getting him in his first pose.
So maybe if I go to the front view here I'm just going to select one of the arms and I'll hit AR and
turn it down like this.
And keep in mind I'm here on frame one and what I should do actually let me undo that.
I'm like press Alt are what I should do first of all is turn on the automatic key frame insertion.
So let's click this.
And now if we do anything to the rig if I hit R and pull this down to say right here you can see we
get our key frames automatically inserted.
We could do it manually by pushing the eye key and choosing location and rotation.
And that would be fine if you want to do it manually each time.
But I think it goes a little quicker if you have blender do it automatically.
So I'm just going to hit R and rotate this down and that'll be our beginning pose for the arms for this
for The Root bone or the hips maybe I'd like to move this down just a bit here kind of bend the legs
just a bit like this and I may I may turn these a bit too I'll hit the three key If I select this control
the spine to and hit ah I can turn it just a bit and maybe I'll turn this one just a bit that spine
one I'm in hit ah and turn them over just a little bit just to give him some room to kind of breathe
in.
So what I'm going to do is kind of have him breathe in and the arms come out of it and then then relax
and do that a few times over the period of six seconds okay.
So we've got this.
What we're gonna need is all of this to be duplicated back over here at the end of our cycle because
we need the first frame of the cycle and the last frame of the cycle to be exactly the same.
So to do that I'm just going to WITH ALL THESE still selected I'm going to press shift D and just move
them all the way down here like that.
Okay now I'm not really sure how many times he's gonna take a breath here.
Let's see if I right click on the timeline and click and drag with the right mouse button.
I can move this timeline cursor to where I wanted to be so I was on frame 1.
Let's move it up to.
I don't know.
I don't know how long a breath should take.
Let's try 20 frames.
So what I'll do here is select that hips control and let's move it back to where it was I'll press all
G and that will move it back up to where it was and when we do that that will also create key frames.
So if I right click and drag you can see he's going from down here up to here.
See him kind of moving up and down at frame 20 as well I think maybe I will go ahead and take these
and I'll press Alt R to bring them back up to where they were.
All right.
So he's gonna kind of maybe take a breath.
You see how he's kind of taking a breath.
You have to make the sound effects you know so we can just taken a breath there.
OK.
In addition I think I want that head bone too or that head control the head to kind of move forward
a bit.
So if we come over here and let's choose this head bone I'm going to insert a key frame here at the
Iki location and rotation I'm doing that because I need to add a key frame but I'm not changing anything
right.
So now if I move this up to here now I think what I'd like to do is roll this forward just a bit so
I'll hit the R key and rotate it forward just a tiny little bit like that.
All right.
So let's see how that works.
Let's see what that looks like.
That we begin down here he kind of goes up and down so that may be a bit too much.
Let's give it a try.
That may be OK let's try it.
So what I want to do is take these key frames here oh let me do the arms and let me do the arms so I
think what I'll do is for the arms I want to move these out just a bit so I'll hit the Aki and move
them out just a smidge and then the Aki and move this out just a smidge.
There we go.
Now let's see how that works.
Yeah.
Kind of goes like that.
OK.
So we don't really know how the timing is on this we're going to have to get some other key frames in
here to know what the timing is.
So what let's do is I'm going to press all a down here to deselect everything and then I'll press the
B key and border select all of these and then I'll duplicate these.
So shift D and then I'll just drag this way and I don't know how long at this point in time maybe 15
frames to frame thirty five let's say and then let's do the same thing over here.
I'm going to border select all of these and press shift D and move these over to here.
So now let's see how this works.
I'm going to go back to the beginning of the timeline with shift left arrow.
Here we go.
And then I'm going to hit the spacebar.
OK.
So the timing on that isn't quite right.
A little bit too slow on everything.
OK so let's deselect with all a.
Oh I need to do all day over here in the timeline.
I'll hit the B key and let's border select these G.
Move them in some.
And then let's do this.
I may not need extra frames here but let's try it.
I'm going to take these and border select borders like these and hit the G key and move these back to
here.
So let's try this go back to the beginning with shift and left arrow and play Yeah see I don't think
I need this here to hold that so I'm going to hit B and border select and just delete these hit the
delete key and choose Delete key frames.
So now what let's do is let's put these on frame 15 and then let's put these on frame 30.
I'll hit the G key and move these to frame 30.
Now let's try this shift left arrow and let's hit the spacebar seems to be a little bit too fast.
All right.
We're getting there though.
I will move these out to frame 20.
Then let's try that old aide de select B two border select g to move and let's move these two frame
forty shift and left arrow and hit the spacebar yeah let's try that.
OK.
So now what let's do is go ahead and do this throughout the whole thing.
So let's take these two rows of key frames.
I'll press the B key and let's grab these and so let's press shift D duplicate these and move these
out to frame 60.
Let's do that.
All right click.
Move it down to one frame one hit the spacebar
a little bit too much.
He's moving a little bit too much.
But let's go ahead and get this all timed out.
So once again let's take these to be key border select these two rows shift deep and move these down
to well one hundred.
Let's try that shift and left arrow key and then let's hit the spacebar
All right.
I think what we could do is slow it down some and move this row here
to the very end.
Let's try this one I'm going to do is border select these and delete them and we go now I'm going to
select everything here hit the a key and let's move this cursor all the way back to frame one and then
if we hit the esky and scale these it will scale from the point of the timeline cursor here.
So will this do is just hit the esky and scale these out until that last column of key frames is right
at the end at one forty 44.
All right let's try this
all right.
OK.
I will go with that for now.
That's OK.
It's not great but I think that'll work for now.
All right.
So now that we've got him kind of breathing in an idle cycle there in the next video let's work on moving
the head back and forth.
Let's turn the head one way so he can look to the side and then look back and then back to the center
before the end of the cycle.
That's coming up next.